[IMP] ecommerce: products page updated (#10616)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/websites/ecommerce/products.rst

Products
========

**Odoo eCommerce** allows you to :ref:`create <products/create-products>`,
:ref:`import <products/import-products>`, and manage your :ref:`product pages
<products/product-pages>` directly within the Website app. You can also add
:ref:`product variants <products/product-variants>` and
:ref:`digital files <products/digital-files>`, :ref:`translate <products/translation>`
your product page content, :ref:`manage your stock <products/stock-management>`, and enable
:ref:`product comparisons <products/product-comparison>`.

Add products
============

.. _products/create-products:

Create products
---------------

From anywhere on your website, click :guilabel:`+ New`, then :guilabel:`Product`. Enter the
:guilabel:`Product Name`, :guilabel:`Sales Price`, the default :guilabel:`Customer Taxes` for
local transactions, and :guilabel:`Save`. You can then update the product details, add an image,
and :ref:`customize <products/customization>` the product page. When you :guilabel:`Save`, the

> product page is automatically published.

Author: Someone who wants to create a product without making it immediately available will probably not find the information contained in this list of tips easy to find. Information on publishing a page can be found here : https://www.odoo.com/documentation/17.0/applications/websites/website/pages.html?highlight=publish#website-un-publish-page. I added a ref to that doc, to avoid duplicating the content, hope this makes sense to you :)

icon and :ref:`Import records <import-data>`.

.. _products/product-pages:

Product page
============

Once a product is created, you can access its page by going to your :guilabel:`Shop` and clicking on
it. Click :guilabel:`Edit` to :ref:`customize <products/customization>` the page or edit its
:ref:`layout <products/layout>` or content.

.. _products/product-form:

To access the backend **product form**, click the :icon:`fa-cog` :guilabel:`Product` smart button in
the top right corner of the product page. Alternatively, navigate to :menuselection:`Website -->
eCommerce --> Products` and select your product. From the form, you can customize your product page
by adding :ref:`variants <products/product-variants>`, :ref:`digital documents
<products/digital-files>`, or :ref:`translating <products/translation>` content.

.. _products/customization:

Customization
-------------

To customize a product page, click :guilabel:`Edit`. Go to the :guilabel:`Blocks` tab to add
:doc:`building blocks <../../websites/website/web_design/building_blocks>` or to the
:guilabel:`Customize` tab to modify the page :ref:`layout <products/layout>` or add features:

> 

Author: No. Only the different options of a feature, when clarifications are useful.

> :guilabel:`Terms and Conditions`: toggle the switch to apply them to your product page.

Author: Regarding your third comment, I don't think it is necessary to mention it. I think people know they can click anywhere to update the page's content. We can talk about it if you want :)

- :guilabel:`Thumbnails`: decide how the thumbnails should be aligned, either
  :icon:`fa-long-arrow-left` (:guilabel:`Left`) or :icon:`fa-long-arrow-down` (:guilabel:`Bottom`).
- :guilabel:`Main Image`: click :guilabel:`Replace` to change the product's main image.
- :guilabel:`Extra Images`: you can :guilabel:`Add` extra images or :guilabel:`Remove all` product
  images. You can also add images and videos via **URL** when clicking :guilabel:`Add`.

.. note::
   Images must be in PNG or JPG format and must be bigger than 1024x1024 to trigger the zoom.

.. tip::
   When dragging and dropping a building block on your product page, placing it above or below the
   top or bottom blue lines makes it visible on all product pages.

.. _products/product-variants:

Product variants
================

Product variants are different versions of the same product, such as various colors or materials,
with potential differences in price and availability.

Go to :menuselection:`Website --> Configuration --> Settings --> Shop - Products` to enable
:guilabel:`Product Variants`. Then, go to the :guilabel:`Attributes & Variants` tab available in the

> :ref:`product forms <products/product-form>`. From there, you can add attributes and values allowing

Author: I'm not sure of what you mean by adding a ref to the products variants doc since I remove the previous doc to only keep this one.

   :guilabel:`edit`.

.. _products/before-payment:

Digital files available before payment
--------------------------------------

Let the :guilabel:`Visibility` field blank and toggle the :guilabel:`Show on product page` option to
make the file available on your product page before payment.

.. image:: products/digital-files.png
   :alt: digital file available before payment on the  product page

.. _products/after-payment:

Digital files available after payment
-------------------------------------

To make your file available after payment, choose :guilabel:`Confirmed order` in the
:guilabel:`Visibility` field and unselect the :guilabel:`Show on product page` option. The
file becomes available in the :guilabel:`Sales Orders` section on the customer's portal after
checkout.

.. _products/translation:

Translation
===========

If multiple languages are available on your website and you want to translate a product's
information, go to the :ref:`product form <products/product-form>` to enter the translated
information in the related fields. Fields that support multiple languages are identifiable by their abbreviation language (e.g., EN)
next to their field.

> .. image:: products/products-field-translation.png

Reviewer: :arrow_up:

     :doc:`SEO <../../websites/website/pages/seo>`.
   - To check the language(s) of your website, go to :menuselection:`Website --> Configuration -->
     Settings --> Website Info section`.

Website availability
--------------------

A product can be available on either *one* website or *all* websites. It is not possible to select
*some* websites and not others.

To set availability, open the :ref:`product form <products/product-form>`, go to the
:guilabel:`Sales` tab, and in the :guilabel:`eCommerce shop` section, and select the
:guilabel:`Website` you wish the product to be available on. Leave the field blank to make the
product available on *all* websites.

.. _products/stock-management:

Stock management
================

Go to :menuselection:`Website --> Configuration --> Settings --> Shop - Products`, to enable and
configure inventory management options.

.. important::
   - The **Inventory** app must be installed to see the inventory management options.
   - To display the stock level on your product page, the :guilabel:`Product Type` must be set to
     :guilabel:`Storable` in the :ref:`product form <products/product-form>`.

Inventory
---------

> In the :guilabel:`Inventory Defaults` sub-section, select your eCommerce selling strategy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the following fields:
```
I'm not sure they all relate to the selling strategy per say so I would try to stay a little more general (e.g., the Warehouse field, which is missing from the list of field btw)

Author: Updated, as discussed.

- :guilabel:`Out-of-Stock`: enable :guilabel:`Continue Selling` to allow customers to continue
  placing orders even when the product is **out-of-stock**. Leave the box unchecked to
  **prevent orders**;
- :guilabel:`Show Available Qty`: displays the available quantity left under a specified threshold

>   on the product page. The available quantity is calculated based on the 'On hand' quantity minus
>   the quantity already reserved for outgoing transfers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  on the product page. The available quantity is calculated based on the :guilabel:`On hand` quantity minus
  the quantity already reserved for outgoing transfers.
```

.. _products/product-comparison:

Product comparison
==================

> Your visitors can compare products based on their attributes when the :guilabel:`Product Comparison
> Tool` is enabled. You can activate it by going to :menuselection:`Website --> Configuration -->
> Settings --> Shop - Products` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To allow website visitors to compare products based on their attributes, go to :menuselection:`Website --> Configuration --> Settings`, scroll down to the :guilabel:`Shop - Products` section, and enable :guilabel:`Product Comparison Tool`.
```
- non-menu items should not be in menuselection
- to simplify the sentence and avoid repetitions (is enabled/you can activate it) + respecting the order of the steps (go to XXX, find the section, enable the feature) helps make the info more readable and clear

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Product Comparison Tool` can only be used if :doc:`attributes <products/variants>`

>    are set on the :ref:`product form <products/product-form>`.

Reviewer: - I thought this doc page was going to be removed? which would make more sense since you talked about product variants on this doc page here? 
- I would rephrase the second part of the sentence a little to make it more clear: The :guilabel:`Product Comparison Tool` is only available for products with attributes (with a link to the relevant section on this doc).
- I know the option is activated by default when you enable the Product comparison tool, but still think it would be helpful to add a link to the Customozation options somehow in this note (using a short sentence) just in case.
-

On your main shop page, click the :icon:`fa-exchange` (:guilabel:`Compare`) option on the products
you want to compare. Then, click :icon:`fa-exchange` :guilabel:`Compare` in the pop-up window at the

> bottom of the page to reach the comparison summary.

Reviewer: Should we also add that you can click Compare on a product page (in a tip for example)? not sure, what do you think?

Author: added in a note with the link to the Customization section

     options to best fit your design preferences.

- :guilabel:`Search Bar`: toggle the switch to enable the search bar to help customers quickly find
   specific products.

- :guilabel:`Prod. Desc.`: toggle the switch to display the product description below the product's
  name.

- :guilabel:`Categories`: select :guilabel:`Left` to display the product categories on the left side
  of the products page, and/or choose :guilabel:`Top` to display them at the top of the page.

  - :guilabel:`Collapse Categories`: toggle the switch to group products in the same category.

- :guilabel:`Datepicker`: toggle the switch to display a date range calendar to check the
   availability of rental products over a specific period. The :guilabel:`Rental` app must be
   installed to use this feature.

- :guilabel:`Attributes`: select :guilabel:`Left` to display your product attributes on the left
  column, and select :guilabel:`Top` to display a :icon:`fa-sliders` (:guilabel:`dropdown toggle`)
  icon allowing users to filter products.

  - :guilabel:`Price Filter`: toggle the switch to display a :guilabel:`Price Range` bar which

>     allows users to filter products according to a specific price range by dragging adjustable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    allows customers to filter products according to a specific price range by dragging adjustable
```

    handles.
  - :guilabel:`Product Tags`: toggle the switch to display the :guilabel:`Product Template Tags` on
    the product page and allow customers to filter products using those tags by going to the
    :guilabel:`Tags` section in the left column.

- :guilabel:`Top Bar`: select :guilabel:`Sort By` to display a dropdown list in the top bar for
  sorting products and/or :guilabel:`Layout` to display the icons for :icon:`fa-th-large`
  (:guilabel:`Grid`) or :icon:`fa-list` (:guilabel:`List`) views.

- :guilabel:`Default Sort`: choose how to sort your products: :guilabel:`Featured`,
  :guilabel:`Newest Arrivals`, :guilabel:`Name (A-Z)`, :guilabel:`Price - Low to High` or
  :guilabel:`Price - High to Low`.

> 

Author: I missed the Buttons option, indeed. I added them but didn't refer to the other section where they were mentioned, as it was not exactly the same description. Let me know if you want to discuss it.

.. tip::
   - When dragging and dropping a building block on your product page, placing it above or below the
     top or bottom blue lines makes it visible on all product pages.
   - You can edit any text on your website simply by clicking on it while in :guilabel:`Edit` mode.

Go to the :guilabel:`Customize` tab to modify the page layout or add features:

- :guilabel:`Terms and Conditions`: toggle the switch to display a link to your
  :doc:`terms and conditions <../../finance/accounting/customer_invoices/terms_conditions>` on the
  product page.

- :guilabel:`Customers`:

   - :guilabel:`Rating`: allows logged-in portal users to submit product reviews by clicking the
     stars below the product's name. The page automatically scrolls to the
     :guilabel:`Customer Reviews` section at the bottom, where users can share their experiences.
     Reviews are also visible in the product's chatter in the backend. To display reviews on the
     product page, click the :icon:`fa-plus` (:guilabel:`plus`) icon next to
     :guilabel:`Customer Reviews`. To restrict visibility to internal employees, toggle the
     :guilabel:`Public` switch next to the review comment.

>    - :guilabel:`Share`: adds social media and email icon buttons allowing users to share the product

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - :guilabel:`Share`: adds social media and email icon buttons allowing customers to share the product
```

field blank and toggle the :guilabel:`Show on product page` switch.

.. image:: products/digital-files.png
   :alt: digital file available before payment on the  product page

.. _ecommerce-products-digital-files-after-payment:

Digital files available after payment
-------------------------------------

To make your file available (after payment), set the :guilabel:`Visibility` field to
:guilabel:`Confirmed order` and turn off the :guilabel:`Show on product page` switch.

.. _ecommerce-products-translation:

Translation
===========

If multiple languages are available on your website, you can translate a product's information
directly on the :ref:`product form <ecommerce-products-product-form>`. Fields that support multiple languages
are identifiable by their abbreviation language (e.g., EN) next to their field.

.. image:: products/products-field-translation.png
   :alt: Field translation

The eCommerce-related fields to translate are:

- :guilabel:`Product name`;
- :guilabel:`Out-of-Stock Message` (under the :guilabel:`Sales` tab);
- :guilabel:`Sales Description` (under the :guilabel:`Sales` tab).

.. note::

>    - Having untranslated content on a web page may be detrimental to the user experience and
>      :doc:`SEO <../../websites/website/pages/seo>`. You can use the
>      :doc:`Translate <../website/configuration/translate>` feature to allow automatic translation of
>      standard terms and provide a tool for manual content translation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Having untranslated content on a web page may be detrimental to the user experience and
     :doc:`SEO <../../websites/website/pages/seo>`. You can use the
     :doc:`Translate <../website/configuration/translate>` feature to translate the page's content
```
- The last sentence sounds a bit too vague (what are *standard terms*?)
- The transition between the two parts of the last sentence (allow automatic translation xxx and provide a tool for xxx) is a bit clumsy and doesn't really flow

I tried to rephrase the sentence but actually, I think we can just simplify it since the Translations page covers the rest.

   - To check the language(s) of your website, go to :menuselection:`Website --> Configuration -->
     Settings` and go to the :guilabel:`Website Info` section.

.. _ecommerce-products-website-availability:

Website availability
--------------------

> To set the product's availability, navigate to the :ref:`product form <ecommerce-products-product-form>`, go

Reviewer: I know it's mentioned just above but still I think it'd be helpful to repeat it:
```suggestion
To set the product's website availability, navigate to the :ref:`product form <ecommerce-products-product-form>`, go
```

to the :guilabel:`Sales` tab, and in the :guilabel:`eCommerce shop` section, select the
:guilabel:`Website` you wish the product to be available on. Leave the field blank to make the
product available on *all* websites.

.. note::
   You can make a product available on either *one* website or *all* websites, but selecting only
   *some* websites is not possible.

.. _ecommerce-products-stock-management:

Stock management
================

To enable and configure inventory management options, go to :menuselection:`Website -->
Configuration --> Settings`, scroll down to the :guilabel:`Shop - Products` section and the
:guilabel:`Inventory Defaults` sub-section.

.. important::
   - The **Inventory** app must be installed to see the inventory management options.

>    - To display the stock level on your product page, the :guilabel:`Product Type` must be set to
>      :guilabel:`Storable` in the :ref:`product form <ecommerce-products-product-form>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - To display the stock level on your product page, the :guilabel:`Product Type` must be
     :guilabel:`Storable` in the :ref:`product form <ecommerce-products-product-form>`.
```
or

```suggestion
   - To display the stock level on your product page, the :guilabel:`Product Type` field must be set to
     :guilabel:`Storable` in the :ref:`product form <ecommerce-products-product-form>`.
```

.. _ecommerce-products-inventory:

Inventory
---------

In the :guilabel:`Inventory Defaults` sub-section, fill in those fields:

- :doc:`Warehouse <../../inventory_and_mrp/inventory/warehouses_storage/inventory_management/warehouses>`;
- :guilabel:`Out-of-Stock`: enable :guilabel:`Continue Selling` to allow customers to place orders
  even when the product is **out of stock**. Leave the box unchecked to **prevent orders**;
- :guilabel:`Show Available Qty`: displays the available quantity left under a specified threshold
  on the product page. The available quantity is calculated based on the :guilabel:`On hand`
  quantity minus the quantity already reserved for outgoing transfers.

.. _ecommerce-products-product-comparison:

Product comparison
==================

> To allow website visitors to compare products based on their attributes, go to

Reviewer: I mentioned this in the general comment but this section is a good example of why it's best to avoid using the 2nd pronoun too much: In this case, you address the reader (i.e., in most cases, the person who configures the eCommerce app) *and* their customers (i.e. the people who will actually use the Compare tool) using *you*, which I think is a little confusing. I would actually refer customers onlu as *customers* when possible (see below for suggestions.

:menuselection:`Website --> Configuration --> Settings`, scroll down to the
:guilabel:`Shop - Products` section, and enable :guilabel:`Product Comparison Tool`.

> The :icon:`fa-exchange` (:guilabel:`Compare`) icon is now available on each product card on your main
> shop page. Click the :icon:`fa-exchange` (:guilabel:`Compare`) option on the products you want to
> compare. Then, click :icon:`fa-exchange` :guilabel:`Compare` in the pop-up window at the bottom of
> the page to reach the comparison summary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The :icon:`fa-exchange` (:guilabel:`Compare`) icon is now available on each product card on the main shop page when customers hover their mouse over it. To compare products, customers can click the :icon:`fa-exchange` (:guilabel:`Compare`) option on the products they want to compare, then click :icon:`fa-exchange` :guilabel:`Compare` in the pop-up window at the bottom of the page to reach the comparison summary.
```

.. image:: products/products-compare.png
   :alt: Product comparison window

.. note::
   - The :guilabel:`Product Comparison Tool` is only available for products with
     :ref:`attributes <ecommerce-products-product-variants>`.
   - The :icon:`fa-exchange` (:guilabel:`Compare`) option can be specifically

>      :ref:`added or removed <ecommerce-products-customization>` on each product page.

Reviewer: I'm not sure about this; it seems like the Compare option on the product page is global so you can't decide for each individual product if you want to have it or not (i.e., if you remove it, you remove it for *all product pages*).

I would suggest changing this entirely to instead mention the fact that you can you can also click Compare on a product page (like I mentioned in my first review).
